## Development

To work on the website, open VS Code. If the correct project (emmabentleymusic) isn't open: `File > Open Folder... > ~/Documents/emmabentleymusic`.

**IMPORTANT**: You will want to always follow a workflow that does the below steps *in order*. If you find yourself skipping a step or going out of order, you are likely doing something wrong. 

### Making Edits

You can edit any file in the repository in VS Code. Remember to save it. You can also edit files in this directory using other programs (e.g., an image editor). You can also use Finder to move/add/delete files from this folder. 

Remember not to edit files in the `_site` folder. This folder is automatically generated by Jekyll and any changes you make there will be overwritten.

### Previewing Changes
To serve the website locally, run the following command in the terminal window:
```bash
bundle exec jekyll serve
```
If the terminal isn't open: `Terminal > New Terminal`

The serve command will show you where the website is being served, as well as how to stop the server (`Ctrl-C`).

The server will automatically serve the latest version of any files, so you don't need to rerun the server when you edit files (just save them). You will need to refresh your browser to see the changes.

### Updating the live website

Once you are happy with your changes, you can push them to GitHub to update the live website. To see what changes you have made, open the Git panel in VS Code by clicking the Git icon on the left sidebar (three circles with squiggly lines). 

From there, click on each file to view the changes you made. When you feel confident in the changes you made to a file, press the `+` icon next to the file to stage it for commit. Once you have done this for all of the files you want to update, enter a commit message in the text box at the top of the Git panel (e.g., "Updated about me section") and click "Commit". 

At this point, the "Commit" button will change to "Sync Changes".  Click that button to sync your changes with GitHub. The live website will update automatically once the changes are pushed. You may need to wait a few minutes for the changes to appear, and you can track the deployment status on the GitHub repository page under the "Actions" tab.